docs/index.md, before:

# Oxford/Cambridge Alumni Group Database

This database is accessed by alumni when registering for events, joining, renewing, or modifying any of their personal information or mailing list selections.

The database includes:

- all member information (including current and past members, and mailing list subscribers)
- event information
- records of all membership dues payments
- records of event registrations (since 2007)
- accounting information (since late 2011)
- the online payment mechanism (via Stripe)
- email and notice capability (via Mailgun)

Organizers are assigned different access rights depending on their need to modify the database. All have the ability to search/view member information, event registrations, etc.

The landing page of the database application is reached, for example, at `https://oxcamne.pythonanywhere.com/oxcam` for the OxCamNE database hosted on PythonAnywhere. However to reach the index page as shown below, a user must login using their email address. Oxcam responds by sending an email with a link containing a one-time security code to verify the email address. Clicking that link opens the index page as shown below. Anyone with an email address can do this.

![index](images/index.png)

The page banner for the Society is followed by a menu bar. Both the menu bar and the content depend on the user identified by the email address.

The **Home** button links to the home page of the Society's public web site, and is always shown. The **MyAccount** button always returns the user to this page, and the **Logout** button does what it says.

The [**members**](members), **events**, **accounts**, and **help** buttons are shown only to organizers of the group who have been granted database access rights, and lead to the corresponding modules of the application.

Commit message:

layout drop down right menu. help URL in settings_private. copy event opens new event for edit

docs/index.md, after:

# Oxford/Cambridge Alumni Group Database

This database is accessed by alumni when registering for events, joining, renewing, or modifying any of their personal information or mailing list selections.

The database includes:

- all member information (including current and past members, and mailing list subscribers)
- event information
- records of all membership dues payments
- records of event registrations (since 2007)
- accounting information (since late 2011)
- the online payment mechanism (via Stripe)
- email and notice capability (via Mailgun)

Organizers are assigned different access rights depending on their need to modify the database. All have the ability to search/view member information, event registrations, etc.

The landing page of the database application is reached, for example, at `https://oxcamne.pythonanywhere.com/oxcam` for the OxCamNE database hosted on PythonAnywhere. However to reach the index page as shown below, a user must login using their email address. Oxcam responds by sending an email with a link containing a one-time security code to verify the email address. Clicking that link opens the index page as shown below. Anyone with an email address can do this.

![index](images/index.png)

The page banner for the Society is followed by a menu bar. Both the menu bar and the content depend on the user identified by the email address.

The **Home** button links to the home page of the Society's public web site, and is always shown. Hovering over **MyAccount** produces a dropdown menu:

- *MyAccount* returns from anywhere to this page
- *Directory* takes you to the member directory
- *Logout* does what it says!

The [**members**](members), [**events**,](events.md) **accounts**, and **help** buttons are shown only to organizers of the group who have been granted database access rights, and lead to the corresponding modules of the application.
