docs/support.md, before:

# [Oxford/Cambridge Alumni Group Database - Support Guide](index.md)

This section of the guide covers installation and support and is intended for the more tech-savvy volunteer organizer charged with installing and maintaining the organization's IT infrastructure. To return to this page from elsewhere in the guide click on the title.

The online database is an open source [project](https://github.com/oxcamne/oxcam). Please start by reading the project README you will see there (you probably came here from there!).

 Oxcam is a [Python](https://www.python.org) App running under the open source web framework [Py4web](https://github.com/web2py/py4web). Please see the Py4web documentation for information on it's installation.

You need a web server belonging to the organization. OxCamNE uses PythonAnywhere and has an account there with username 'oxcamne', hence the database is reached at [https://oxcamne.pythonanywhere.com/oxcam](https://oxcamne.pythonanywhere.com/oxcam). This is a low cost and relatively straightforward option. Whatever your choice of web server, first ensure that the prerequisites described in the README are satisfied and that you have Py4web up and running on your web server. The Py4web documentation has information on installing Py4web on a variety of environments. Finally [**install the oxcam app**](install).

Commit message:

db_restore default NOT overwrite existing database

docs/support.md, after:

# [Oxford/Cambridge Alumni Group Database - Support Guide](index.md)

This section of the guide covers installation and support and is intended for the more tech-savvy volunteer organizer charged with installing and maintaining the organization's IT infrastructure. To return to this page from elsewhere in the guide click on the title.

The online database is an open source [project](https://github.com/oxcamne/oxcam). Please start by reading the project README you will see there (you probably came here from there!).

 Oxcam is a [Python](https://www.python.org) App running under the open source web framework [Py4web](https://github.com/web2py/py4web). Please see the Py4web documentation for information on it's installation.

You need a web server belonging to the organization. OxCamNE uses PythonAnywhere and has an account there with username 'oxcamne', hence the database is reached at [https://oxcamne.pythonanywhere.com/oxcam](https://oxcamne.pythonanywhere.com/oxcam). This is a low cost and relatively straightforward option. Whatever your choice of web server, first ensure that the prerequisites described in the README are satisfied and that you have Py4web up and running on your web server. The [Py4web documentation](https://py4web.com/_documentation) has information on installing Py4web on a variety of environments.

See instructions on installing the oxcam app [**here**](install).

For managing and supporting the database there are a number of tools:

- depending where your web server is hosted there will be a **web console** to handle its basic operation. In the case of PythonAnywhere, you reach this by logging in to the groups PythonAnywhere account. This is where you go to start or stop the server, to apply software updates, to examine web traffic logs, to download database backup files for archival elsewhere, etc.

- the **Py4web dashboard** will be used primarily to examine any failure tickets. It may also be used for some database administration tasks.

- there are various admin tools built into oxcam. These include [**db_restore**](db_restore.md), [**db_backup**](db_backup.md), [**db_tool**](db_tool.md), and **stripe_tool**.
